.. raw:: html

    <meta name="robots" content="noindex, nofollow, noarchive, nosnippet, notranslate, noimageindex">
.. image:: ./media/image1.png
   :width: 3.5in
   :height: 0.5in

#######################################################
Enterprise Cloud Adoption Journey: Technical Challenges
#######################################################

Technical Whitepaper
====================

Last updated: May 11, 2017


Introduction
============

The enterprise journey to cloud adoption can be driven by two different
types of incentives. The business drives one type, building new,
transformative capabilities. Here the cloud is an enabler that did not
exist in the past. The other type is focused on optimizing the legacy
data center environments within IT to contain evolving pressures. These
two types are usually happening in parallel. In all cases, cloud
adoption is accelerating, and along with it an increasing number of
challenges.

Competitive pressures on businesses to move more quickly and be more
agile, are forcing decisions on where to deploy new applications. The
public cloud is a resource for creating new disruptive applications that
would be difficult if not impossible to implement in other means. It
provides competitive leverage to not only new businesses but existing
enterprises.

Additionally, massive application workloads like Enterprise Resource
Planning applications (ERP), large custom applications, high performance
computing applications and backup and disaster recovery applications are
migrating to the public cloud out of necessity to mitigate the constant
strain to keep costs under control over time.

Most enterprises are stepping into the cloud with a hybrid approach.
Aviatrix for Hybrid Cloud enables enterprises to design, configure and
operate secure and scalable hybrid cloud networks to migrate, access and
run applications in the public cloud.

Business Drivers to Migrate to the Hybrid Cloud
===============================================

This is a typical list of CIO and enterprise motives that drive the move
of enterprise applications to the cloud.

New transformative business models
----------------------------------

-  pay-as-you-go flexibility to expand / reduce IT footprint as needed

-  untested workloads, “fail-fast, fail-cheap” POC’s

-  apps with cloud native architecture, rapid flex-up and scale-out

Disaster recovery and high availability
---------------------------------------

-  geo-dispersed sites

-  system redundancy

-  significantly easier and automated periodic testing

Cost savings
------------

-  especially storage costs and high-performance computing

-  limited IT staff and resource growth

-  temporary scale up **and** scale down in capacity demands

International expansion and collaboration
-----------------------------------------

-  M&A activities resulting in geographically dispersed disparate
   systems

-  expansion into new global markets

Compelling events
-----------------

-  expiring data center equipment support

-  expiring data center leases

Compliance
----------

-  requirements for local data hosting in the region being served vs
   centralized

Use Cases 
==========

The following use cases represent examples of the above scenarios.

Use Case #1: Home grown (legacy) applications
---------------------------------------------

HR departments may have large workloads: recruitment management,
relocation, benefits administration, human capital management, finance
and accounting, SCM/procurement, expense reporting, time management,
etc. These applications may be used sporadically and have low
performance requirements, making them an ideal choice to offload from
on-premises and into the cloud.

Other legacy applications used by finance/legal departments may be used
infrequently and have low performance needs, as well as legacy custom
stubs for SSO or employee VPN access all would benefit by moving to the
cloud.

Offloading these applications means that IT can reallocate this hardware
to applications that require more steady computing power, or
decommission the hardware altogether. Either scenario means time and
efficiency gains for the IT department, without any noticeable change in
performance from end users.

Use Case #2: Disaster recovery and high availability
----------------------------------------------------

Instances in the cloud are not much different than instances in the data
center in terms of failure possibilities. This includes
server/service/VM failures and reboots, zone failures, and multi-zone
cloud failures. To achieve multiple 9s of availability, processes need
to be in place for these types of failure mechanisms, including the need
to automate everything and do on-going assurance testing on a regular
basis.

Cloud customers can use hybrid clouds to promote both DR and HA,
oftentimes extending DR protection to important, yet previously
unprotected systems.

Use Case #3: Big data, storage and backup/archiving 
----------------------------------------------------

Enterprises have accumulated huge volumes of data, stored in databases,
which power the applications that their end users and customers rely on
every day. These applications often involve many VMs as part of their
architecture, and their databases often hold terabytes worth of data,
even though much of that data lays “at rest” for large portions of
the time.

There are two major benefits to getting these applications and their
datasets into the cloud. First, a greatly reduced on-premises hardware
footprint by reducing both servers and storage. Second, these
applications can now benefit from the elasticity of the cloud, by easily
adding more compute (for the application) or storage (for the databases)
whenever needed.

Use Case #4: DevOps/QA/Test 
----------------------------

Developers need an agile, flexible, dynamic environment for developing
and testing software applications. Moving CI/CD applications for
development and testing to the cloud has clear benefits, including cost
savings and increased time-to-market. These applications are lower-risk,
lower performance, mostly self-contained with no dependencies, and good
“phase 1” candidates for migration.

Use Case #5: International expansion
------------------------------------

Businesses that expand internationally may need applications and data to
be closer to the new locations. This could be due to localization
requirements, minimizing latencies to apps/data, or compliance reasons.
A new acquisition or merger could result in almost instantly
geographically dispersed public clouds that now need to be peered or
connected back to other data centers.

Technical Challenges
====================

The technical requirements and challenges enterprises face during this
journey to the cloud are multi-faceted. Enterprise applications
represent a significant on premise investment with critical value, and
years of development. Even with a “lift and shift” methodology,
organizations may struggle with inherent interdependencies to move them,
along with the data, to the public cloud. One of the CIO’s highest
priorities must be to minimize risk when the move is made as these
applications usually are mission critical.

Latency
-------

The demands on performance and user experiences with cloud based
applications can sometimes be subpar, resulting in not only user
frustrations but real business financial impacts. 

The roles of both the Internet and cloud computing complicate latency, with networks broken
down into hundreds of components, and layers of virtualization and
virtualized network infrastructure. Bringing the applications closer to
the end-user is oftentimes the most viable and flexible solution to
reduce latencies, since there are few restrictions on physical location
that exist with custom engineered direct connections.

Security
--------

Enterprises must minimize risk migrating applications to the cloud.
Cloud computing and security go hand in hand. Cloud environments face
many of the same threats as traditional corporate networks, but due to
the vast amount of data stored on cloud servers, providers become an
attractive target.

Network security groups allow organizations to shield parts of their
public cloud from direct outside access -- like a firewall. Hybrid and
multicloud environments present new cloud security challenges and risks
as data moves between on premises and the cloud. If custom
Internet-bypassing connections are used, no native end-to-end encryption
is provided.

Agile role-based secure access
------------------------------

As enterprises move applications to the public cloud, the users and
organizations owning the applications now have interconnects to the
public cloud that did not exist previously. These interconnects must be
secure. Companies have a need to authenticate and enable their mobile
employees to securely access the companies evolving network via the
Internet with a secure VPN solution. This solution must be easily
deployed, managed, highly scalable, and agile to meet the constantly
evolving network topologies caused by migrating applications.

Multi-vendor cloud providers
----------------------------

To enable geographically dispersed data redundancy, and other types of
redundancy, or to support unique workloads, it is common to buy cloud
services from more than one vendor. While each has its own uniqueness
and strengths, the IT organization wants to minimize operational
complexities and create inter-cloud connections that are visible,
manageable, robust, scalable, and easy to deploy.

Enterprises need to plan ahead by assuming hybrid IT will be the future
and take steps accordingly. Hybrid management systems, integration,
workload portability, automation and skills using various public cloud
platforms are all important investments to make early in the cloud
deployment process.

Custom network configurations
-----------------------------

Creating and securely connecting the on-premise datacenter to the cloud
resources is often slow and manual. Seamless extension of the private IP
address space into the public cloud such that resources in the public
cloud are easily accessible, reducing the attack surface, reducing
issues with overlapping IP address space is a key challenge facing
network engineers.

Large data center and cloud environments have complex network
configurations and settings to satisfy regulatory and internal policies.
Matching the workload compute and storage requirements to the cloud
services is not the total solution – mapping of the existing network
environment to the cloud network can be very daunting and error prone.
Enterprise workloads may need to be configured for specific
sub-networks, VLANs and use of specific IP address ranges as well as
physical IP address.

It can take weeks to provision secure connectivity, involving complex
router configurations managed by network experts and expensive
installations. Aviatrix hybrid cloud networking provides a one-click
software-only model to set up encrypted connections to public clouds in
minutes, with the ability to extend the private IP network to public
clouds.

Throughput/Performance 
-----------------------

Cloud performance depends on network performance. While cloud providers
like to talk about the latest software offerings, the speed and capacity
of the cloud provider’s network will usually be a determining factor for
the viability of any cloud-based software application. The key measure
of network performance is throughput – sometimes called bandwidth.

What is critical for networks in cloud computing is not only achievable
performance, but consistency of performance, which is important when
sending large amounts of data between servers. One of the latest trends
is buying network capacity on an incremental basis, just like any other
cloud resource. Other cloud provider direct connect solutions also add
bandwidth improvements for transferring large amounts of data when more
capacity is needed. However, these solutions do not provide native
end-to-end security.

Summary
=======

The enterprise cloud adoption journey is just that – a journey. New
technical solutions are appearing at an ever-increasing rate, as well as
new challenges they bring. A well thought out migration plan that
includes all the aspects of vendor features, performance, security and
networking is required.

Aviatrix provides an innovative Cloud Networking software solution that
simplifies connectivity to the cloud in a secure and scalable way. At
Aviatrix, we believe that networking is a foundational element of cloud
computing and, should be as dynamic, scalable, and elastic as compute
and storage.

Aviatrix for Hybrid Cloud eliminates the complexity of connecting to and
across public clouds with a simple mesh architecture, and is fully
integrated with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google
Cloud Platform.
